Add draft minutes from 2022-02-24 (#96)
confidential-computing/governance: TAC/Meetings/2022/2022-02-24/CCC_TAC_Minutes-2022-02-24.md

# Confidential Computing Consortium TAC meeting

*The TAC meets for two hours on alternating Thursdays. All members of the community are welcome to attend and participate.*

## Meeting details

**Date**: Thursday, February 24, 2022

**Time**: 7a-9a US Pacific Time

* **Zoom**: [https://zoom.us/j/184384055](https://zoom.us/j/184384055) (pw: 43690)
* **Calendar**: [https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io](https://calendar.confidentialcomputing.io) ([ical](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/c_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics), [Google Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=c_c0pcihr7n2n1k3a38i32d9ag10@group.calendar.google.com))
* **Recording**: [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cAKU9u0Z0_g)

### Voting members of the TAC

*Per the [charter](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io), all [CCC Premier members](https://confidentialcomputing.io/members/) receive one vote on the TAC. Quorum for votes is at least 50% of voting members present.*

* **Accenture** - Giuseppe Giordano
* **ANT Group** - Zongmin Gu

> * **ARM** - Thomas Fossati / Michael Lu

Author: Thanks, I just checked and it looks like I mixed up the org with the arch. I'll change this.

* **CCC Charter**: [charter.confidentialcomputing.io](https://charter.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LF Training course on DEI**: [Inclusive Open Source Community Orientation (LFC102) (free)](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/inclusive-open-source-community-orientation-lfc102/)
* **Declared project dependencies**: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0)
* **YouTube**: [youtube.confidentialcomputing.io](https://youtube.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LFX**: [lfx.linuxfoundation.org](https://lfx.linuxfoundation.org)
* **Join the CCC**: [join.confidentialcomputing.io](https://join.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **Contact the CCC**: [confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/](https://confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Welcome

Rep. Thaler opened the call at 7:04a PT. He welcomed the members of the TAC and reviewed the values of the CCC and the antitrust policy of the Linux Foundation.

### Roll Call / Attendance

#### Voting members

* Dan Middleton (Intel)
* Dave Thaler (Microsoft)
* Lily Sturman (Red Hat)
* Giuseppe Giordano (Accenture)

> * Tate, Hongliang Tian (Ant Group)

Author: Unless Tate or Zongmin tell us otherwise in a future meeting, let's add Tate to the list of alternates for Ant. I'm also going to push a fix changing "ANT" to "Ant."

> * Tate, Hongliang Tian (Ant Group)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Tate, Hongliang Tian (Ant Group, alternate)
```

* Thomas Fossati (Arm)

> #### Attendees

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Other Attendees
```
Don't imply that the members listed above this were not attendees.

    * To be discussed in main agenda as a possible TAC tech talk.

### Completed Action Items

1. **[ALL]** Review, comment and/or correct text in [Common Terminology Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xZ6IX0w0jaWDbLMFNAybTF3FpLnQ5TJ98nzIWbsbFnY/edit). (To be moved to main agenda)

1. **[Dan Middleton]** [PR #92](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/pull/92) opened to develop a CoC escalation process.

### Project overviews

* Veraison
    * Dave Thaler (DT) noted that Veraison was approved by the TAC, and is ready for next steps (technical charter, IP transfer, board approval).
* Enarx
    * DT noted that Enarx is ready for its annual review.

1. **[Brian, Dave]** Schedule Veraison for Board review, tech charter development, and IP transfer.

### Open Enclave SDK - annual project review 

Radhika Jandhyala (RJ) reviewed the [Open Enclave SDK annual project review document](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/tree/main/TAC/Meetings/2022/2022-02-24). She noted that the communication channels have changed, noting that the Matrix server has been deprecated. She also noted that some dependencies have changed.

> DT asked for clarification which Open Enclave SDK this represents, as there are different versions for Windows and Linux. RJ noted that this talk is specific to Open Enclave SDK for Linux.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DT asked for clarification which SGX SDK this represents, as there are different versions for Windows and Linux. RJ noted that this dependency is specific to the SGX SDK for Linux.
```

Author: LGTM, thanks @dcmiddle

RJ noted that Linux packages have been uploaded to various package repositories and GitHub.

She noted that Open Enclave SDK has a quarterly release cadence. Releases are also made when CVEs are fixed. She noted that the project averages six commits weekly. The committers are making progress towards Inclusive Open Source Communities orientation, and noted that this is being tracked in a github issue.

RJ reviewed intentional work by the project to help diversify the organizations involved. She noted that that OE SDK has not yet published a list of adopters and is not yet ready to request Graduation stage.

RJ next reviewed budget requests. She noted that OE SDK is using Zoom and had a license scan in the fall. She requested an updated license scan once the project has had time to remediate some issues. She noted this is likely the only budget request.

> DT requested RJ's opinion whether the project could be ready for Graduation status within the next year. She noted that it could be longer. DT noted that the Graduated lifecycle text has never been finalized. Dan Middleton (DM) asked if this should be a focus for an upcoming meeting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DT requested RJ's opinion whether the project could be ready for Graduation status within the next year. She noted that it could be longer. DT noted that the Graduation lifecycle text has never been finalized. Dan Middleton (DM) asked if this should be a focus for an upcoming meeting.
```

### Common terminology

Eric Voit (EV) reviewed recent changes to the diagram and noted additional context had been added to the bullet points underneath. He noted that additional context was provided regarding Enarx, where one build could be used to maintain a common north-bound interface, allowing a single project to abstract away the isolation technologies underneath. Finally, he noted descriptive text from Enarx that highlights certain aspects which be abstracted, allowing projects to span multiple isolation technologies.

DT noted that it's helpful to have specific examples from projects, in light of the text about Enarx. He suggested that other projects contribute content to the descriptive text as well, to help place the CCC's role in broader context. EV agreed and noted that contributions from other CCC projects would be welcomed. DT recommended that project mentors involve their projects in contributing text.

Steve Van Lare (SVL) agreed that it would be good to include other projects, as there are different TEE solutions based upon architectures, and that there are differences between encryption and isolation in the tech stacks. 

> DT continued discussion on the Anjuna glossary definition of confidential computing. He noted that the Anjuna definition of Confidential Cloud covers protection of data-in-use, data-in-flight, and data-at-rest. He noted that the definition was broader than the CCC scope, which explicitly refers to data-in-use. He noted that he would like the document to cover these other layers as well, in keeping with SVL's original suggestions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DT continued discussion on the Anjuna glossary definitions related to confidential computing. He noted that the Anjuna definition of Confidential Cloud covers protection of data-in-use, data-in-flight, and data-at-rest. He noted that the definition was broader than the CCC scope, which explicitly refers to data-in-use. He noted that, speaking as the Microsoft rep, he would like to see the document define one or more terms that cover all three areas, in keeping with SVL's original suggestions.
```
clarified that I argued for one or more terms that span all three legs as prerequisites, not for any terms specific to the other two.

Author: Thanks, this is context that I missed. Looks good.

SVL reviewed Anjuna's perspective on Confidential Cloud. Discussion ensued over the boundaries of Confidential Cloud. DT asked from whom the data is confidential. SVL noted that cloud providers have different opinions on the size of the circle of trust. Discussion ensued over what data-in-use means.

EV provided a preview of a future TAC tech talk. He noted that many of the discussions around Confidential Cloud also apply to the networking space. Discussion ensued.

Ravi Sahita (RS) asked if it makes sense to also discuss the layers above CCC's definition. DT noted that attestation is a key component and helps fit the various components together. 

DT summarized the discussion noting there would also be value discussing the other aspects of data protection, as well as cloud and networking. He noted that the whitepaper could ultimately discuss how to tie various aspects together.

> Thomas Fossati (TF) asked if anyone is leading activity to create an initial diagram including layers above CCC. DF requested volunteers. SVL noted that expanding the discussion into networking would be helpful. RS volunteered to help, as did SVL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thomas Fossati (TF) asked if anyone is leading activity to create an initial diagram including layers above confidential computing. DF requested volunteers. SVL noted that expanding the discussion into networking would be helpful. RS volunteered to help, as did SVL.
```
clarify this is not about something about the Consortium
